File Uploads
------------
https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns
Tons of important information on uploading files to a webserver. Can be used for various attacks; including RCE (Remote Code Execution) by uploading files containing shells or reverse-shells.
Here is some of what is in this room:

"So, we have a file upload point on a site. How would we go about exploiting it?

As with any kind of hacking, enumeration is key. The more we understand about our environment, the more we're able to do with it. Looking at the source code for the page is good to see if any kind of client-side filtering is being applied. Scanning with a directory bruteforcer such as Gobuster is usually helpful in web attacks, and may reveal where files are being uploaded to; Gobuster is no longer installed by default on Kali, but can be installed with sudo apt install gobuster. Intercepting upload requests with Burpsuite will also come in handy. Browser extensions such as Wappalyser can provide valuable information at a glance about the site you're targetting.

With a basic understanding of how the website might be handling our input, we can then try to poke around and see what we can and can't upload. If the website is employing client-side filtering then we can easily look at the code for the filter and look to bypass it (more on this later!). If the website has server-side filtering in place then we may need to take a guess at what the filter is looking for, upload a file, then try something slightly different based on the error message if the upload fails. Uploading files designed to provoke errors can help with this. Tools like Burpsuite or OWASP Zap can be very helpful at this stage.
--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 3
"Remote Code Execution (as the name suggests) would allow us to execute code arbitrarily on the web server. Whilst this is likely to be as a low-privileged web user account (such as www-data on Linux servers), it's still an extremely serious vulnerability. Remote code execution via an upload vulnerability in a web application tends to be exploited by uploading a program written in the same language as the back-end of the website (or another language which the server understands and will execute). Traditionally this would be PHP, however, in more recent times, other back-end languages have become more common (Python Django and Javascript in the form of Node.js being prime examples). It's worth noting that in a routed application (i.e. an application where the routes are defined programmatically rather than being mapped to the file-system), this method of attack becomes a lot more complicated and a lot less likely to occur. Most modern web frameworks are routed programmatically.

There are two basic ways to achieve RCE on a webserver when exploiting a file upload vulnerability: webshells, and reverse/bind shells. Realistically a fully featured reverse/bind shell is the ideal goal for an attacker; however, a webshell may be the only option available (for example, if a file length limit has been imposed on uploads, or if firewall rules prevent any network-based shells). We'll take a look at each of these in turn. As a general methodology, we would be looking to upload a shell of one kind or another, then activating it, either by navigating directly to the file if the server allows it (non-routed applications with inadequate restrictions), or by otherwise forcing the webapp to run the script for us (necessary in routed applications)."--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 5

"Up until now we have largely been ignoring the counter-defences employed by web developers to defend against file upload vulnerabilities. Every website that you've successfully attacked so far in this room has been completely insecure. It's time that changed. From here on out, we'll be looking at some of the defence mechanisms used to prevent malicious file uploads, and how to circumvent them.

First up, let's discuss the differences between client-side filtering and server-side filtering.

When we talk about a script being "Client-Side", in the context of web applications, we mean that it's running in the user's browser as opposed to on the web server itself. JavaScript is pretty much ubiquitous as the client-side scripting language, although alternatives do exist.  Regardless of the language being used, a client-side script will be run in your web browser. In the context of file-uploads, this means that the filtering occurs before the file is even uploaded to the server. Theoretically, this would seem like a good thing, right? In an ideal world, it would be; however, because the filtering is happening on our computer, it is trivially easy to bypass. As such client-side filtering by itself is a highly insecure method of verifying that an uploaded file is not malicious.

Conversely, as you may have guessed, a server-side script will be run on the server. Traditionally PHP was the predominant server-side language (with Microsoft's ASP for IIS coming in close second); however, in recent years, other options (C#, Node.js, Python, Ruby on Rails, and a variety of others) have become more widely used. Server-side filtering tends to be more difficult to bypass, as you don't have the code in front of you. As the code is executed on the server, in most cases it will also be impossible to bypass the filter completely; instead we have to form a payload which conforms to the filters in place, but still allows us to execute our code.

With that in mind, let's take a look at some different kinds of filtering.

Extension Validation:

File extensions are used (in theory) to identify the contents of a file. In practice they are very easy to change, so actually don't mean much; however, MS Windows still uses them to identify file types, although Unix based systems tend to rely on other methods, which we'll cover in a bit. Filters that check for extensions work in one of two ways. They either blacklist extensions (i.e. have a list of extensions which are not allowed) or they whitelist extensions (i.e. have a list of extensions which are allowed, and reject everything else).

File Type Filtering:

Similar to Extension validation, but more intensive, file type filtering looks, once again, to verify that the contents of a file are acceptable to upload. We'll be looking at two types of file type validation:

[1]
MIME validation: MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension) types are used as an identifier for files -- originally when transfered as attachments over email, but now also when files are being transferred over HTTP(S). The MIME type for a file upload is attached in the header of the request ... MIME types follow the format / ... [for example] "image/jpeg". The MIME type for a file can be checked client-side and/or server-side; however, as MIME is based on the extension of the file, this is extremely easy to bypass."
[2]
Magic Number validation: Magic numbers are the more accurate way of determining the contents of a file; although, they are by no means impossible to fake. The "magic number" of a file is a string of bytes at the very beginning of the file content which identify the content. For example, a PNG file would have these bytes at the very top of the file: 89 50 4E 47 0D 0A 1A 0A ... Unlike Windows, Unix systems use magic numbers for identifying files; however, when dealing with file uploads, it is possible to check the magic number of the uploaded file to ensure that it is safe to accept. This is by no means a guaranteed solution, but it's more effective than checking the extension of a file.
File Length Filtering:

File length filters are used to prevent huge files from being uploaded to the server via an upload form (as this can potentially starve the server of resources). In most cases this will not cause us any issues when we upload shells; however, it's worth bearing in mind that if an upload form only expects a very small file to be uploaded, there may be a length filter in place to ensure that the file length requirement is adhered to. As an example, our fully fledged PHP reverse shell from the previous task is 5.4Kb big -- relatively tiny, but if the form expects a maximum of 2Kb then we would need to find an alternative shell to upload.

File Name Filtering:

As touched upon previously, files uploaded to a server should be unique. Usually this would mean adding a random aspect to the file name, however, an alternative strategy would be to check if a file with the same name already exists on the server, and give the user an error if so. Additionally, file names should be sanitised on upload to ensure that they don't contain any "bad characters", which could potentially cause problems on the file system when uploaded (e.g. null bytes or forward slashes on Linux, as well as control characters such as ; and potentially unicode characters). What this means for us is that, on a well administered system, our uploaded files are unlikely to have the same name we gave them before uploading, so be aware that you may have to go hunting for your shell in the event that you manage to bypass the content filtering.

File Content Filtering:

More complicated filtering systems may scan the full contents of an uploaded file to ensure that it's not spoofing its extension, MIME type and Magic Number. This is a significantly more complex process than the majority of basic filtration systems employ, and thus will not be covered in this room.
It's worth noting that none of these filters are perfect by themselves -- they will usually be used in conjunction with each other, providing a multi-layered filter, thus increasing the security of the upload significantly. Any of these filters can all be applied client-side, server-side, or both.

Similarly, different frameworks and languages come with their own inherent methods of filtering and validating uploaded files. As a result, it is possible for language specific exploits to appear; for example, until PHP major version five, it was possible to bypass an extension filter by appending a null byte, followed by a valid extension, to the malicious .php file. More recently it was also possible to inject PHP code into the exif data of an otherwise valid image file, then force the server to execute it..."--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 6

"As mentioned previously, client-side filtering tends to be extremely easy to bypass, as it occurs entirely on a machine that you control. When you have access to the code, it's very easy to alter it.

There are four easy ways to bypass your average client-side file upload filter:

Turn off Javascript in your browser -- this will work provided the site doesn't require Javascript in order to provide basic functionality. If turning off Javascript completely will prevent the site from working at all then one of the other methods would be more desirable; otherwise, this can be an effective way of completely bypassing the client-side filter.
Intercept and modify the incoming page. Using Burpsuite, we can intercept the incoming web page and strip out the Javascript filter before it has a chance to run. The process for this will be covered below.
Intercept and modify the file upload. Where the previous method works before the webpage is loaded, this method allows the web page to load as normal, but intercepts the file upload after it's already passed (and been accepted by the filter). Again, we will cover the process for using this method in the course of the task.
Send the file directly to the upload point. Why use the webpage with the filter, when you can send the file directly using a tool like curl? Posting the data directly to the page which contains the code for handling the file upload is another effective method for completely bypassing a client side filter. We will not be covering this method in any real depth in this tutorial, however, the syntax for such a command would look something like this: curl -X POST -F "submit:<value>" -F "<file-parameter>:@<path-to-file>" <site>. To use this method you would first aim to intercept a successful upload (using Burpsuite or the browser console) to see the parameters being used in the upload, which can then be slotted into the above command..."--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 7

"Client-side filters are easy to bypass -- you can see the code for them, even if it's been obfuscated and needs processed before you can read it; but what happens when you can't see or manipulate the code? Well, that's a server-side filter. In short, we have to perform a lot of testing to build up an idea of what is or is not allowed through the filter, then gradually put together a payload which conforms to the restrictions.
[For example] the [server's filtering] code [may look for the letters that come after] the last period (.) in the file name and [use] that to confirm the extension, so that [may be a point to attempt a bypass on]. Other ways the code could be working include: searching for the first period in the file name, or splitting the file name at each period and checking to see if any blacklisted extensions show up...
[As an example] the code [may filter] out the .php and .phtml extensions, so if we want to upload a PHP script we're going to have to find another extension. The wikipedia page for PHP gives us a few common extensions that we can try; however, there are actually a variety of other more rarely used extensions available that webservers may nonetheless still recognise. These include: .php3, .php4, .php5, .php7, .phps, .php-s, .pht and .phar. [One needs to find an extension that is not blacklisted by the server but yet is recognized by the server (so that the server can properly process it).] ... [Another possibility, is to add an accepted file extension after the unacceptable extension (e.g. shell.php becomes shell.php.jpg). The server filtering code may let the file upload because the extension after the last period is acceptable. When the file is accessed, the server may see the .php and properly run the shell - ignoring the .jpg tacked on at the end.]"--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 8

"As mentioned previously, magic numbers are used as a more accurate identifier of files. The magic number of a file is a string of hex digits, and is always the very first thing in a file. Knowing this, it's possible to use magic numbers to validate file uploads, simply by reading those first few bytes and comparing them against either a whitelist or a blacklist. Bear in mind that this technique can be very effective against a PHP based webserver; however, it can sometimes fail against other types of webserver ...
[The method to adjust the magic number is as follows:
- At the very beginning of the file add (for example) the letter A the amount of times needed to generate the length of magic numbers needed for a particular file type. For example, the magic number for a jpeg (.jpg) file is FF D8 FF DB (4 hexadecimal numbers). So add AAAA at the beginning of the .php file and save.
- Then open up the file using a hex editor (such as hexedit). You will see 41 41 41 41 which stands for AAAA. Replace 41 41 41 41 with FF D8 FF DB and save.
- Now use the Linux "file" command to check how your PHP file is perceived. The response should be that the file is a jpeg. 
- You may now be able to load the file to the web server as a .php if the server is configured to filter based on magic number. Once, the file is on the server, it may be possible to run it as a PHP script because the file extension is .php.]"--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 9

"[Methodology when attempting to perform a file upload exploit on a webserver]
Let's say that we've been given a website to perform a security audit on.

The first thing we would do is take a look at the website as a whole. Using browser extensions such as the aforementioned Wappalyzer (or by hand) we would look for indicators of what languages and frameworks the web application might have been built with. Be aware that Wappalyzer is not always 100% accurate. A good start to enumerating this manually would be by making a request to the website and intercepting the response with Burpsuite. Headers such as server or x-powered-by can be used to gain information about the server. We would also be looking for vectors of attack, like, for example, an upload page.
Having found an upload page, we would then aim to inspect it further. Looking at the source code for client-side scripts to determine if there are any client-side filters to bypass would be a good thing to start with, as this is completely in our control.
We would then attempt a completely innocent file upload. From here we would look to see how our file is accessed. In other words, can we access it directly in an uploads folder? Is it embedded in a page somewhere? What's the naming scheme of the website? This is where tools such as Gobuster might come in if the location is not immediately obvious. This step is extremely important as it not only improves our knowledge of the virtual landscape we're attacking, it also gives us a baseline "accepted" file which we can base further testing on.
An important Gobuster switch here is the -x switch, which can be used to look for files with specific extensions. For example, if you added -x php,txt,html to your Gobuster command, the tool would append .php, .txt, and .html to each word in the selected wordlist, one at a time. This can be very useful if you've managed to upload a payload and the server is changing the name of uploaded files.
Having ascertained how and where our uploaded files can be accessed, we would then attempt a malicious file upload, bypassing any client-side filters we found in step two. We would expect our upload to be stopped by a server side filter, but the error message that it gives us can be extremely useful in determining our next steps.
Assuming that our malicious file upload has been stopped by the server, here are some ways to ascertain what kind of server-side filter may be in place:

If you can successfully upload a file with a totally invalid file extension (e.g. testingimage.invalidfileextension) then the chances are that the server is using an extension blacklist to filter out executable files. If this upload fails then any extension filter will be operating on a whitelist.
Try re-uploading your originally accepted innocent file, but this time change the magic number of the file to be something that you would expect to be filtered. If the upload fails then you know that the server is using a magic number based filter.
As with the previous point, try to upload your innocent file, but intercept the request with Burpsuite and change the MIME type of the upload to something that you would expect to be filtered. If the upload fails then you know that the server is filtering based on MIME types.
Enumerating file length filters is a case of uploading a small file, then uploading progressively bigger files until you hit the filter. At that point you'll know what the acceptable limit is. If you're very lucky then the error message of original upload may outright tell you what the size limit is. Be aware that a small file length limit may prevent you from uploading the reverse shell we've been using so far."--https://tryhackme.com/room/uploadvulns; Task 10

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pentest Monkey
a popular reverse shell script written in PHP
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pentestmonkey/php-reverse-shell/master/php-reverse-shell.php
[hat tip: TryHackMe]

Many Reverse Shells
https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/Methodology%20and%20Resources/Reverse%20Shell%20Cheatsheet.md#nodejs
